## The Community: r/LetsTalkMusic

**Description of Community :** This community is focused on talking all things music. This means that this subreddit isn't tied to any specific genre or artist but talks about all artits, genres, and even the music industry itself. The community makes it clear however that searching for recomendations are relegated to general discussion posts instead of recieving a standalone post. 

**Why this Community? :**  This specific subreddit was chosen mainly due to the fact that music is an art medium that is open to various interpretations and opinoins. So, people could have various opinions and questions about music or artists that could spark up very interesting discussion. It's also an massive topic with countless generes and artists, meaning there is room for endless thoughts and discussions. 

**Lables:**

***Question***: These posts are specifically interested in understanding something better. They provide some context or their current understanding of a specific music topic and then ask the community for more of an explanation. These are typically supposed to have on definitive answer instead of being open-ended. 

Example: "Alright everybody-please break down Deftones for me.
Hey everyone! So, have you ever had an artist who you feel like you should like more than you do? One of those for me is Deftones. Plenty of friends of mine dig them hell some even since we were in high school in the early 2000’s. I try I so truly do but I feel like I need advice on how to listen to them. To like actually hear them. What is there that I’m not hearing? What do you love about them?
I considered if it’s best to cold ask the question without any background about me musically or give more info. And ya know what? I didn’t come to a decision so feel free to ask if it encourages you to answer. They’re challenging to me but I feel like I gotta get some navigational assistance. Thanks!"

***Review***: These are posts that choose a specific topic, and review or give their experience on the topic. This could be their opionion on an artist, albulm, concerts, or anything related to music.  

Example: "New artist & Pitch Correction
Okay so I’m a huge fan of music. & lately I’m so unmoved by what been put out lately. Chloe new album that was produced by Timbaland disappointed me although it’s better than her solo projects out in the past. I was expecting this album to be framed similar to the late 90s/ early 2000’s. Raw vocals, bridges, real instruments etc! But no it’s just sounds like Timbaland’s same outdated sound. And this post is in now way to bash either artist but I truly want more from Chloe she’s sooo talented. She’s literally the IT girl. Vocals, dance skills, actress… the list goes on. But Idk I think the over pitch correction throws me off and doesn’t fully allow me to enjoy new music. Now Durand Benarr’s new album was a 10/10 for me. It had those 90s/00s elements while still being with the times and not overly copying it. What do yall think? I’m not even able to enjoy the older artists live vocals cause everyone mic is corrected. Bring back raw vocals pls!!"


***Discussion prompt***: These are for either designated general discussion posts in which users can discuss anything music or for any post that is attempting to ask for people's ideas without specifically arriving at a definitive conclusion.

Example: "Do you jump around artists like crazy, or only your faves and then some? I’ll toot my horn a little here too, please bear with me. I’ve always been fascinated with Spotify Wrapped, since like 2020. I must love numbers and statistics. BUT!, no, it’s not about streaming minutes for me. Trust me, I have A LOT. I promise I have more than 95% of y’all. Minutes can be easy to get, and even manipulated. Just push play, and walk away. But when I realized that’s what is boasted about, I thought, I’m gonna change the game. Over 2025, Spotify says I listened to 43,708 artists. I’m calling it a record, until somebody proves me wrong. With that, came the genre count. Spotify put me at 854 genres. I meticulously listened this way to do exactly this, most artists. It takes no talent, no skill, just push play, have the desire to search a lot, play artist radios, random playlists, have a bit of tolerance to go through stuff that really sucks, and/or just not your thing…and have the time and place to have an earbud in the ear. That’s it!! But now, I’m still bouncing around like so. I really don’t park on an artist. Sure I have my absolute favorite artists, and song repeats. But, I still explore, a lot. Are you an explorer? Or are you fixated on a select number of artists, or maybe genres? Maybe you’re a musician and focus more on artists similar to what you do. What moves you to be one or the other? I appreciate your thoughts."

**Hard Edge Cases :** Typically the type of posts that will be ambiguous are going to be ones that seem as if they could fit into either Question or Discussion Prompt. The main destinction is that Question posts will have a concrete and definitive answer while Discussion Prompts will ask people for their opinions or thoughts instead of a definitive answer. This will be handled during annotation by focusing on what the seeming intention is behind the post. It's clear that discussion prompts are more focused on having an initial take and seeing what others think while a question typically will  provide a disconnect/misunderstanding that they want an explanation for. 

**Evaluation Metrics :** I think that instead of simply focusing on accuracy I will be focusing on precision within each category. This means that for a specific category, lets say Discussion, out of 50 prompts that are actually discussion it lables 45 of them properly as discussion then the model is working relatively well. However, if  it only get 10 out of the 50 for the discussion lable then the model isn't working quite well. 

**Definition of Success :** My definition of success is a model that is able to near perfectly, around 85% accuracy, label a prompt correctly. This means that it is able to provide a post with a prompt that accuralty matches the contents and intent of the post itself. I would also want to understand why the prompt gives posts the labels they are given.

## AI Tool Plan
For this project, Claude will specifically generating fake posts that sit as a boundary between the different labels. This means I will have it generate about 6 posts per label pairing for the model to end up using to learn the difference between the two labels. I might use an LLM to pre-label the posts before I verify, although I am leaning more towards simply labeling them myself only. 
